  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

According to projections of the International Monetary Fund, Russian GDP will 
grow by about 1% this year after a 0.4% growth in 1997. Inflation in Russia is 
expected to decline to 8% from 11% in 1997.  

The State Duma, Russia’s lower house of parliament, voted to reject Sergei 
Kiriyenko as prime minister a second time. 271 deputies voted against Kiriyenko 
and 115 for.  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

In the first quarter of 1998, consolidated oil production of UKSI was 15.3 mln 
tonnes. Oil export totalled 5.3 mln tonnes in the first quarter of 1998.  

Russia’s Federal Securities Commission has registered a 1:100 split in Tatneft 
shares. In the first quarter of 1998, Tatneft’s oil production decreased by 
0.65% year-on-year, and totalled 5.76 mln tonnes. 

 Energy   

The agenda of Mosenergo’s general shareholders meeting to be held on May 25, 
1998 will include a possible issue of 3.48 billion of shares. The shares would 
be exchanged for the control over two power stations the company currently 
leases from the national power company UES and substations owned by the city of 
Moscow. If the shareholders approve the issue, it will be made in late 1998 or 
early 1999. 

On April 27-28, 1998, the board of directors of Russia’s UES will consider 
possible candidacies for the position of the board chairman. Next week, the 
board will examine the results of the anonymous survey of 80 top executives of 
Russia’s regional utilities to select the candidate for the post. Anatoly 
Chubais was rated third. Victor Kudryavyi and Valentin Bogan (the CEO of 
Tyumenenergo) were rated first and second, respectively.  

On April 17, 1998, Irkutskenergo placed a DM125 mln ($68 mln) Eurobonds issue. 
Part of the proceeds will be used to repay the $50 mln loan received last year. 
Standard & Poor’s gave Irkutskenergo a long-term B+ rating. 

Sverdlovenergo will probably place several new issues of shares to pay for three 
electric power stations it currently leases from UES. The three stations have a 
combined capacity of 6,537 MW. As soon as UES receives permission from the 
Russian government to sell its power stations, Sverdlovenergo will discuss the 
issue at a shareholders meeting. 

 Telecommunications  

PTS, a local telecom operator in the St. Petersburg market, has finished all 
preparatory work needed to launch level-1 ADRs. Each ADR will represent one 
common share. PTS intends to widen its investor base by launching the ADR 
programme. The company will also make a new issue of common and preferred shares 
worth R43.2 million (about $7.2 million). 

Svyazinvest recommended that the regional telecom operators pay out 5% of the 
net profit as dividends on common shares and 10% on preferred shares for 1997. 

 Other Companies  

Nizhnekamsk Tire Plant submitted the documentation to US SEC to receive the 
permission to issue ADRs. The ADRs will probably be issued on 5% of the 
company’s shares. 

In the first quarter of 1998, Magnitogorsk Metallurgical Plant received a $20 
mln credit from Inkombank to supplement its working capital and pay out wages to 
the workers. 

Chelyabinsk Tube Rolling Plant plans to issue level-1 ADRs this year. 

Airline Tyumenaviatrance appointed Arthur Andersen its auditor to audit its 
financial statements and prepare IAS statements for the first quarter of 1998. 
The audit will be completed in the beginning of July 1998. 
  
	  
