{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1031\deflangfe1031{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset204\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}
{\f23\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt MS ??};}{\f28\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}@MS Mincho;}{\f31\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f29\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f32\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f33\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f34\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f35\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f36\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f47\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f45\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f49\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f50\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f51\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1031\langfe1031\cgrid\langnp1031\langfenp1031 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1031\langfe1031\cgrid\langnp1031\langfenp1031 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}}{\info{\title A}{\author sokirko}
{\operator sokirko}{\creatim\yr2003\mo4\dy15\hr18\min4}{\revtim\yr2003\mo4\dy15\hr18\min4}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords2544}{\nofchars14501}{\*\company dwds}{\nofcharsws17808}{\vern8249}}\margl1319\margr1319\margt1134\margb1134 
\deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale104\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1031\langfe1031\cgrid\langnp1031\langfenp1031 {\dbch\af23 

\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 A. Chekhov
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 GOOSEBERRIES
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 THE whole sky had been overcast with rain-clouds from early
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 morning; it was a still day, not hot, but heavy, as it is in grey
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 dull weather when the clouds have been hanging over the country
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 for a long while, when one expects rain\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  and it does not come.
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Ivan Ivanovitch, the veterinary surgeon, and Burkin, the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 high-school teacher, were already tired from walking, and the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 fields seemed to them endless. Far ahead of them they could just
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 see the windmills of the village of Mironositskoe\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ; on the right
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 stretched a row of hillocks which disappeared in the distance
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 behind the village, and they both knew that this was the bank of
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the river, that there were meadows, green willows, homesteads
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 there, and that if one stood on one of the hillocks \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 one could see
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 from it the same vast plain, telegraph-wires, and a train which
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 in the distance looked like a crawling caterpillar, and that in
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 clear weather one could even see the town. Now, in still weather,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 when all nature seemed mild and dreamy, Ivan Iva\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 novitch and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Burkin were filled with love of that countryside, and both
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 thought how great, how beautiful a land it was.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Ivan Ivanovitch heaved a deep sigh and lighted a pipe to begin to
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 tell his story, but just at that moment the rain began. And five
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 minut\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 es later heavy rain came down, covering the sky, and it was
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 hard to tell when it would be over. Ivan Ivanovitch and Burkin
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 stopped in hesitation; the dogs, already drenched, stood with
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 their tails between their legs gazing at them feelingly.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 They turned a\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 side a nd walked through mown fields, sometimes
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 going straight forward, sometimes turning to the right, till they
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 came out on the road. Soon they saw poplars, a garden, then the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 red roofs of barns; there was a gleam of the river, and the view
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 opened on to \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 a broad expanse of water with a windmill and a white
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 bath-house: this was Sofino, where Alehin lived.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 The watermill was at work, drowning the sound of the rain; the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 dam was shaking. Here wet horses with drooping heads were
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 standing near their carts, and m\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 en were walking about covered
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 with sacks. It was damp, muddy, and desolate; the water looked
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 cold and malignant. Ivan Ivanovitch and Burkin were already
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 conscious of a feeling of wetness, messiness, and discomfort all
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 over; their feet were heavy with mud, \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and when, crossing the dam,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 they went up to the barns, they were silent, as though they were
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 angry with one another.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 In one of the barns there was the sound of a winnowing machine,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the door was open, and clouds of dust were coming from it. In the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 doorway \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 was standing Alehin himself, a man of forty, tall and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 stout, with long hair, more like a professor or an artist than a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 landowner. He had on a white shirt that badly needed washing, a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 rope for a belt, drawers instead of trousers, and his boots, too,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 were pl\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 astered up with mud and straw. His eyes and nose were
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 black with dust. He recognized Ivan Ivanovitch and Burkin, and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 was apparently much delighted to see them.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 It was a big two-storeyed house. Alehin lived in the lower
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 storey, with arched ceilings and lit\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 tle windows, where the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 bailiffs had once lived; here everything was plain, and there was
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 a smell of rye bread, cheap vodka, and harness. He went upstairs
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 into the best rooms only on rare occasions, when visitors came.
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Ivan Ivanovitch and Burkin were met in\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  the house by a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 maid-servant, a young woman so beautiful that they both stood
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 still and looked at one another.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Beautiful Pelagea, looking so refined and soft, brought them
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 towels and soap, and Alehin went to the bath-house with his
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 guests. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Ivan Ivanovit\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ch went outside, plunged into the water with a loud
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 splash, and swam in the rain, flinging his arms out wide. He
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 stirred the water into waves which set the white lilies bobbing
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 up and down; he swam to the very middle of the millpond and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 dived, and came up \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 a minute later in another place, and swam on,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and kept on diving, trying to touch the bottom. He swam to the mill, 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 talked to the peasants there, then returned and lay on his back in the 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 middle of the pond, turning his face to the rain. Burkin and Alehin 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 were dressed and ready to go, but he still went on swimming and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 diving. 
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 They went back to the house. And only when the lamp was lighted
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 in the big drawing-room upstairs, and Burkin and Ivan Ivanovitch,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 attired in silk dressing-gowns and warm slippers, w\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ere sitting in
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 arm-chairs; and Alehin, washed and combed, in a new coat, was
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 walking about the drawing-room, evidently enjoying the feeling of
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 warmth, cleanliness, dry clothes, and light shoes; and when
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 lovely Pelagea, stepping noiselessly on the carpet an\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 d smiling
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 softly, handed tea and jam on a tray -- only then Ivan Ivanovitch
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 began on his story, and it seemed as though not only Burkin and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Alehin were listening, but also the ladies, young and old, and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the officers who looked down upon them sternly and ca\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 lmly from
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 their gold frames.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 He was a gentle, good-natured fellow, and I was fond of him, but
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 I never sympathized with this desire to shut himself up for the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 rest of his life in a little farm of his own. It's the correct
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 thing to say that a man needs no m\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ore than six feet of earth. But
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 six feet is what a corpse needs, not a man. And they say, too,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 now, that if our intellectual classes are attracted to the land
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and yearn for a farm, it's a good thing. But these farms are just
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the same as six feet of earth. \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 To retreat from town, from the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 struggle, from the bustle of life, to retreat and bury oneself in
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 one's farm -- it's not life, it's egoism, laziness, it's
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 monasticism of a sort, but monasticism without good works. A man
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 does not need six feet of earth or a \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 farm, but the whole globe,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 all nature, where he can have room to display all the qualities
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and peculiarities of his free spirit.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 My brother Nikolay, sitting in his government office, dreamed of
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 how he would eat his own cabbages, which would fill the whole
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 yard with such a savoury smell, take his meals on the green
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 grass, sleep in the sun, sit for whole hours on the seat by the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 gate gazing at the fields and the forest. Gardening books and the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 agricultural hints in calendars were his delight, his favourite
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 s\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 piritual sustenance; he enjoyed reading newspapers, too, but the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 only things he read in them were the advertisements of so many
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 acres of arable land and a grass meadow with farm-houses and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 buildings, a river, a garden, a mill and millponds, for sale. And
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 h\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 is imagination pictured the garden-paths, flowers and fruit,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 starling cotes, the carp in the pond, and all that sort of thing,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 you know. These imaginary pictures were of different kinds
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 according to the advertisements which he came across, but for
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 some rea\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 son in every one of them he had always to have
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 gooseberries. He could not imagine a homestead, he could not
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 picture an idyllic nook, without gooseberries.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Country life has its conveniences. You sit on the verandah and you 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 drink tea, while your ducks swim\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  on the pond, there is a delicious 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 smell everywhere, and . . . and the gooseberries are growing.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 He used to draw a map of his property, and in every map there
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 were the same things -- house for the family, servants'
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 quarters, kitchen-garden, gooseberry-bu\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 shes. He lived
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 parsimoniously, was frugal in food and drink, his clothes were
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 beyond description; he looked like a beggar, but kept on saving
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and putting money in the bank. He grew fearfully avaricious. I
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 did not like to look at him, and I used to give him\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  something and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 send him presents for Christmas and Easter, but he used to save
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 that too. Once a man is absorbed by an idea there is no doing
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 anything with him.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Years passed: he was transferred to another province. He was
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 over forty, and he was still readi\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ng the advertisements in the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 papers and saving up. Then I heard he was married. Still with the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 same object of buying a farm and having gooseberries, he married
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 an elderly and ugly widow without a trace of feeling for her,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 simply because she had filthy lucr\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 e. He went on living frugally
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 after marrying her, and kept her short of food, while he put her
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 money in the bank in his name. Her first husband had been a 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 postmaster, and with him she was accustomed to pies and home-made 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 wines, while with her second husb\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and she did not get enough black 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 bread; she began to pine away with this sort of life, and three
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 years later she gave up her soul to God. And I need hardly say 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 that my brother never for one moment imagined that he was responsible 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 for her death. Money, l\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ike vodka, makes a man queer. In our town there 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 was a merchant who, before he died, ordered a plateful of honey and 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ate up all his money and lottery tickets with the honey, so that no 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 one might get the benefit of it. While I was inspecting cattle at a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 r\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ailway-station, a cattle-dealer fell under an engine and had his
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 leg cut off. We carried him into the waiting-room, the blood was
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 flowing -- it was a horrible thing -- and he kept asking them to
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 look for his leg and was very much worried about it; there we\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 re
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 twenty roubles in the boot on the leg that had been cut off, and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 he was afraid they would be lost.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Last year I went to pay him a visit. I thought I would go and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 see what it was like. In his letters my brother called his estate
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 'Tchumbaroklov Waste, ali\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 as Himalaiskoe.' I reached 'alias
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Himalaiskoe' in the afternoon. It was hot. Everywhere there were
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ditches, fences, hedges, fir-trees planted in rows, and there was
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 no knowing how to get to the yard, where to put one's horse. I
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 went up to the house, and wa\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 s met by a fat red dog that looked
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 like a pig. It wanted to bark, but it was too lazy. The cook, a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 fat, barefooted woman, came out of the kitchen, and she, too,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 looked like a pig, and said that her master was resting after
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 dinner. I went in to see my broth\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 er. He was sitting up in bed
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 with a quilt over his legs; he had grown older, fatter, wrinkled;
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 his cheeks, his nose, and his mouth all stuck out -- he looked as
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 though he might begin grunting into the quilt at any moment.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 We embraced each other, and shed \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 tears of joy and of sadness at
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the thought that we had once been young and now were both
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 grey-headed and near the grave. He dressed, and led me out to
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 show me the estate.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 He was no more a poor timid clerk, but a real landowner, a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 gentleman. He was already\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  accustomed to it, had grown used to it,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and liked it. He ate a great deal, went to the bath-house, was
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 growing stout, was already at law with the village commune and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 both factories, and was very much offended when the peasants did
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 not call him 'Your Honou\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 r.' And he concerned himself with the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 salvation of his soul in a substantial, gentlemanly manner, and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 performed deeds of charity, not simply, but with an air of
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 consequence. And what deeds of charity! He treated the peasants
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 for every sort of disease with \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 soda and castor oil, and on his
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 name-day had a thanksgiving service in the middle of the village,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and then treated the peasants to a gallon of vodka -- he thought
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 that was the thing to do. Oh, those horrible gallons of vodka!
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 One day the fat landowner haul\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 s the peasants up before the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 district captain for trespass, and next day, in honour of a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 holiday, treats them to a gallon of vodka, and they drink and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 shout 'Hurrah!' and when they are drunk bow down to his feet. A
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 change of life for the better, and being \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 well-fed and idle
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 develop in a Russian the most insolent self-conceit. Nikolay
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Ivanovitch, who at one time in the government office was afraid
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 to have any views of his own, now could say nothing that was not
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 gospel truth, and uttered such truths in the ton\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 e of a prime
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 minister. 'Education is essential, but for the peasants it is
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 premature.' 'Corporal punishment is harmful as a rule, but in
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 some cases it is necessary and there is nothing to take its
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 place.'
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 And all this, observe, was uttered with a wise, be\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 nevolent
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 smile. He repeated twenty times over 'We noblemen,' 'I as a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 noble'; obviously he did not remember that our grandfather was a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 peasant, and our f ather a soldier. Even our surname
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Tchimsha-Himalaisky, in reality so incongruous, seemed to him now
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 mel\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 odious, distinguished, and very agreeable.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 But the point just now is not he, but myself. I want to tell you
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 about the change that took place in me during the brief hours I
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 spent at his country place. In the evening, when we were drinking
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 tea, the cook put\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  on the table a plateful of gooseberries. They
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 were not bought, but his own gooseberries, gathered for the first
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 time since the bushes were planted. Nikolay Ivanovitch laughed
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and looked for a minute in silence at the gooseberries, with
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 tears in his eyes; \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 he could not speak for excitement. Then he put
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 one gooseberry in his mouth, looked at me with the triumph of a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 child who has at last received his favourite toy.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 They were sour and unripe, but, as Pushkin says: 'Dearer to us 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the falsehood that exalts than\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  hosts of baser truths.' I saw a
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 happy man whose cherished dream was so obviously 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 fulfilled, who had attained his object in life, who had gained
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 what he wanted, who was satisfied with his fate and himself.
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 There is always, for some reason, an element of s\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 adness mingled
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 with my thoughts of human happiness, and, on this occasion, at
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the sight of a happy man I was overcome by an oppressive feeling
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 that was close upon despair. It was particularly oppressive at
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 night. A bed was made up for me in the room next t\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 o my brother's
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 bedroom, and I could hear that he was awake, and that he kept
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 getting up and going to the plate of gooseberries and taking one.
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 I reflected how many satisfied, happy people there really are!
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 'What a suffocating force it is! You look at life:\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  the insolence
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and idleness of the strong, the ignorance and brutishness of the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 weak, incredible poverty all about us, overcrowding,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 degeneration, drunkenness, hypocrisy, lying. . . . Yet all is
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 calm and stillness in the houses and in the streets; of the f\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ifty
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 thousand living in a town, there is not one who would cry out,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 who would give vent to his indignation aloud. We see the people
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 going to market for provisions, eating by day, sleeping by night,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 talking their silly nonse nse, getting married, growing ol\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 d,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 serenely escorting their dead to the cemetery; but we do not see
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and we do not hear those who suffer, and what is terrible in life
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 goes on somewhere behind the scenes. . . . Everything is quiet
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 and peaceful, and nothing protests but mute statistics: so \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 many
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 people gone out of their minds, so many gallons of vodka drunk,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 so many children dead from malnutrition. . . . And this order of
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 things is evidently necessary; evidently the happy man only feels
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 at ease because the unhappy bear their burdens in silenc\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 e, and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 without that silence happiness would be impossible. It's a case
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 of general hypnotism. There ought to be behind the door of every
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 happy, contented man some one standing with a hammer continually
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 reminding him with a tap that there are unhappy people;\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  that
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 however happy he may be, life will show him her laws sooner or
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 later, trouble will come for him -- disease, poverty, losses, and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 no one will see or hear, just as now he neither sees nor hears
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 others. But there is no man with a hammer; the happy man l\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ives at
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 his ease, and trivial daily cares faintly agitate him like the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 wind in the aspen-tree -- and all goes well.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 I went away from my brother's early in the morning, and ever
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 since then it has been unbearable for me to be in town. I am
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 oppressed by its \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 peace and quiet; I am afraid to look at the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 windows, for there is no spectacle more painful to me now than
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the sight of a happy family sitting round the table drinking tea.
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 I am old and am not fit for the struggle; I am not even capable
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 of hatred; I can on\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ly grieve inwardly, feel irritated and vexed;
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 but at night my head is hot from the rush of ideas, and I cannot
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 sleep... Ah, if I were young!"
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Then all three sat in arm-chairs at different ends of the
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 drawing-room and were silent. Ivan Ivanovitch's story h\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ad not
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 satisfied either Burkin or Alehin. When the generals and ladies
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 gazed down from their gilt frames, looking in the dusk as though
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 they were alive, it was dreary to listen to the story of the poor
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 clerk who ate gooseberries. They felt inclined, for so\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 me reason,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 to talk about elegant people, about women. And their sitting in
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the drawing-room where everything reminded them that those very 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 people who were now looking down from their frames had once moved 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 about, sat, drunk tea in this room, and the fact \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 that lovely 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Pelagea was moving noiselessly about was better than any story.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Alehin was fearfully sleepy; he had got up early, before three
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 o'clock in the morning, to look after his work, and now his eyes
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 were closing; but he was afraid his visitors might\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2  tell some
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 interesting story after he had gone, and he lingered on. He did
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 not go into the question whether what Ivan Ivanovitch had just
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 said was right and true. His visitors did not talk of groats, nor
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 of hay, nor of tar, but of something that had no dir\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ect bearing
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 on his life, and he was glad and wanted them to go on.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Alehin said good-night and went downstairs to his own domain,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 while the visitors remained upstairs. They were both taken for
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the night to a big room where there stood two old wooden beds
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 d\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ecorated with carvings, and in the corner was an ivory crucifix.
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 The big cool beds, which had been made by the lovely Pelagea,
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 smelt agreeably of clean linen.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Ivan Ivanovitch undressed in silence and got into bed.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 His pipe lying on the table smelt strong\hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 ly of stale tobacco, and
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 Burkin could not sleep for a long while, and kept wondering where
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 the oppressive smell came from.
\par 
\par \hich\af2\dbch\af23\loch\f2 The rain was pattering on the window-panes all night.
\par 
\par }}