12.5  MUDs
 
 
Multiple-User Dimensions or Dungeons (MUDs) take IRC into the realm of 
fantasy.  MUDs are live, role-playing games in which you enter assume a 
new identity and enter an alternate reality through your keyboard.  As 
you explore this other world, through a series of simple commands (such 
as "look," "go" and "take"), you'll run across other users, who may 
engage you in a friendly discussion, enlist your aid in some quest or try 
to kill you for no apparent reason. 

Each MUD has its own personality and creator (or God) who was willing to 
put in the long hours required to establish the particular MUD's rules, 
laws of nature and information databases.  Some MUDs stress the social 
aspects of online communications -- users frequently gather online to 
chat and join together to build new structures or even entire realms.  
Others are closer to "Dungeons and Dragons" and are filled with 
sorcerers, dragons and evil people out to keep you from completing your 
quest -- through murder if necessary. 

Many MUDs (there are also related games known as MUCKs and MUSEs) require 
you to apply in advance, through e-mail, for a character name and 
password.  One that lets you look around first, though, is HoloMuck at 
McGill University in Montreal.  The premise of this game is that you 
arrive in the middle of Tanstaafl, a city on the planet Holo.  You have 
to find a place to live (else you get thrown into the homeless shelter) 
and then you can begin exploring.  Magic is allowed on this world, but 
only outside the city limits.  Get bored with the city and you can roam 
the rest of the world or even take a trip into orbit (of course, all this 
takes money; you can either wait for your weekly salary or take a trip to 
the city casino).  Once you become familiar with the city and get your 
own character, you can even begin erecting your own building (or subway 
line, or almost anything else). 

