 
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

On June 5, 1998, Russia’s Central Bank decreased its refinancing rate from 150% 
to 60%. 

On June 3, 1998 the Russian government launched a five-year, $1.25 bln 
eurobonds. The bonds with 11.75% coupon rate were priced at a spread of 650 
basis points over 2003 U.S. treasuries. Russia will place two more dollar-
denominated eurobonds this year. 

Fitch IBCA, an international rating agency, downgraded its long-term rating of 
14 Russian banks. The forecast of the long-term rating has been changed to 
negative. The long-term rating of the following banks was changed from “BB” to 
“BB-“: Inkombank, Menatep, National Reserve Bank, SBS-AGRO, UNEXIM Bank. The 
long-term rating of the following banks was changed from “B+” to ”BB-“: Alfa 
Bank, Dialog Bank, International Moscow Bank, Mezhkombank, Russian Credit Bank. 
The long-term rating of the following banks was changed from “B+” to “B”: 
Probisnessbank, Mosbisnessbank, Rosestbank, Toribank. The short-term rating 
remains unchanged at “B”.  

Former head of the Russian State Tax Service Alexander Pochinok was appointed 
the chief of the Financial and lending regulation department of the government. 

Inflation in May was 0.5%, compared to 0.4% in April. 

Sergey Kiriyenko, Russia’s Prime Minister, signed an instruction to cut the 
government staff by 400. 
According to Russia’s State Statistics Committee, in the first quarter of 1998, 
the privatisation revenue decreased by 57.7% year-on-year and totalled R1.1 bln 
($177mln), including the revenue for the previous years. 
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

The Russian government reduced the auction price for 75% plus one share of oil 
company Rosneft from $2.1 billion to $1.64 billion. The required investment in 
the company was also reduced to $65.5 million, compared to the previous 
requirement of $400 mln. The tender bids will be accepted until July 16. The 
results will be announced on July 21. The advance deposit for participation in 
the auction is $156 million. The deadline to realise the investments has been 
shortened from 3.5 months to 1.5 months. Gazprom-LUKoil-Royal Dutch/Shell 
consortium is going to bid for Rosneft. 

LUKoil plans to decrease its oil extracting by 2 or 3% due to decline in world 
oil price. The company authorised 20 million preferred shares, which probably 
will be used to acquire Rosneft. 

On June 5, 1998, Russia’s Fund of Federal Property announced the results of the 
tender to sell 12 mln common shares (20.22% of the charter capital) of Siberian 
Ural Oil & Gas Chemical Company (SIBUR). Bonus Invest Ltd. won the tender by 
offering R108 mln ($17.6 mln). 
 

 Telecommunications  

Starting with June 1, 1998, all categories of MGTS’s shares will have a par 
value of 1 rouble because of re-denomination. 

Khantymansiiskokrtelecom plans to receive a five-year loan worth $25 mln from 
foreign banks and agencies to modernise its equipment. The loan will be 
guaranteed by Inkombank. The loan amount could be increased to $70 mln. 

 Other Companies 

Norilskii Nickel continues preparation for its Level-1 ADRs issue. Documents 
necessary for registration will be submitted to the U.S. SEC in 2 to 5 weeks. 
One ADR will represent one share. The company will not launch eurobonds this 
year. In 1998, the company intends to spend $150 mln on its investment projects. 

Novolipetsk Metallurgical Plant (NLMK) plans to enter the international 
financial markets at the end of 1998 or early 1999. KPMG has been restating the 
company’s 1997 financial statements according to international accounting 
standards. 

The Ministry of State Property will sell the state-owned stakes in several 
metallurgical plants. The stakes to be auctioned during the summer include those 
in Stoilensky (Belgorod region) and Yaroslavskii (Primorskii territory) GOKs, 
Stupinskii Metallurgical Plant (Moscow region), Severstal (Cherepovetskii 
Metallurgical Plant), Novosibirsk Electrode Plant and some others.  

Russia's Federal Securities Commission stopped the issue of common shares of Red 
Boiler because the issue documentation was not prepared in accordance with the 
law.  

On June 2, 1998, Canadian Holdings Limited announced its plan to acquire a stake 
of at least 50% and 1 share in Oskol Electric Metallurgical Plant (OEMK). From 
June 2 to July 2, 1998, the company will purchase the shares with a par value of 
1,000 “old” roubles for 300 roubles per share. 
  
	 
