 
  
	ECONOMICS     
   
The Central Bank of Russia decreased its key refinancing rate from 39% to 36% 
effective March 2 and is planning to bring it down to 16-18% by the end of the 
year.  

According to official data of Russia’s State Statistics Committee, in January 
1998, GDP grew by 1.3% year-on-year and totalled R201.8 billion (about $34 bln). 
Industrial output increased by 1.5% year-on-year in January 1998 and totalled 
R132 billion (about $22 bln). Price index of industrial products increased by 
7.1% year-on-year in January 1998 (compared to 22.6% year-on-year increase in 
January 1997).  

The government of Russian Federation passed a resolution concerning some issues 
of securities circulation after January 1, 1998 rouble redenomination. According 
to the resolution, all of the following should be re-calculated for securities 
issued before the redenomination date of January 1, 1998: par values, issue 
prices, dividends, and coupon payment on bonds.  
  
	COMPANIES     

 Oil & gas  
  
 International rating agency Fitch IBCA assigned BB plus long-term rating to 
Siberian oil company – Sibneft.  

In the near future, regional oil company Tatneft, will sign a strategic 
partnership agreement with LUKOIL to jointly develop new fields in Russia and 
overseas. They will also possibly join forces in privatisation of NORSI.  

Seven bids were received in a tender to select the company that will conduct 
valuation of a major stake in Russian oil company Rosneft. Four of the bids came 
from foreign firms with experience in securities underwriting in international 
financial markets. The winner in this tender will be chosen through a two-phase 
selection process ending February 28, 1998.  

Russia’s largest oil producer, YUKSI, will issue eurobonds in the second half of 
the year.  

Tyumenskaya Oil Company (TNK) intends to establish a consortium with LUKOIL and 
Gazprom to jointly develop Russkoe field. Tyumenneftegaz, TNK’s subsidiary 
company that has a license for the development of this field, will represent 
interests of the parent company in the project. Tyumenneftegaz will hold a 
controlling stake in the consortium and LUKOIL will own 20%. By the middle of 
1998, TNK hopes to receive a $500 million credit from the US Eximbank to develop 
Samotlor field and to modernise Ryazan refinery.  

 Energy  
  
Bashkirenergo will issue ADRs in the second half of 1998 on 6% of its charter 
capital (R1.09 trln). The company intends to receive an international credit 
rating this year and then to issue eurobonds.  

Siberian hydroelectric power station Krasnoyarsk Hydro plans a 30% capital 
increase trough an additional issue of 40 million common shares. Current 
shareholders will not have a pre-emptive right to purchase the shares of the new 
issue. Russia’s Federal Commission for the Securities Market launched an 
investigation into the matter in response to complaints of the company’s 
shareholders. The investigation will be completed by March 15.  

Russia’s giant power utility company Unified Energy Systems (UES) promised to 
pay off the back taxes of regional energos and power stations where UES holds a 
100% stake.  

Sverdlovenergo will issue level-1 ADRs in April 1998. All documents necessary 
for registration will be sent to the US SEC by March 1998.  

 Telecommunications  
  
In June 1998, Novosibirsk Telephone Network (NGTS) plans an additional issue of 
shares totalling R60 mln (about $10 mln).  

The total installed access lines capacity of Electrosvyaz of Khakasiya Republic 
reached 75,402 in 1997. The number of the access lines in use increased by 3,351 
over 1997.  

 Other Companies  

 Nizhnekamskneftekhim (NKNH) will issue level-1 ADRs in the middle of 1998. The 
company also plans rouble bond and eurobond issues. By the end of the year, the 
company intends to receive international credit rating and to issue level-2 
ADRs. In 1997, the production volume of NKNH increased by 5.5% compared to 1996 
level. Sales grew by 4% and totalled R5 billion (about $869 mln). Net income was 
R350 million (about $61 mln). The share of exports in the total production 
volume reached 25%.  

Russia’s largest producer of trucks, ZIL, will issue 600,000 common shares. The 
current shareholders will have a pre-emptive right to purchase the new shares. 
The remaining shares will be sold to the public.  
  
	 
  
Russian Trading System-1 (RTS) and RTS-2 will merge by the end of summer 1998. 
The goal of the consolidation is to optimise traders’ work. Calculation of RTS-2 
index will be discontinued, and the combined RTS index will be calculated using 
the current method.  

The following companies’ shares will be traded on Moscow Interbank Currency 
Exchange (MICEX) after February 19, 1998: Izhorsk Plants, Omsk Refinery, Moscow 
LDT, Vozrozhdenie, Chernogorneft, Aeroflot. There are currently 46 shares of 30 
leading Russian companies quoted on MICEX.  
  
	 
