 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) is ready to offer Russia 
a $4 billion loan. The funds will be used to finance investment projects in oil 
and metallurgical industry beginning with 1998. According to representatives of 
the EBRD, Russia is becoming more attractive for foreign investors. 

On May 15, 1998, the board of directors of the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) made 
a decision to raise its 3-14 day Lombard rates to 36% from 30% and the 15-30 day 
rate to 40% from 36% effective May 18, 1998. The CBR’s refinancing rate was left 
unchanged. 
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

In the first quarter of 1998, Russia’s oil exports increased by 3 million tonnes 
year-on-year to 29.6 million tonnes. However, export sales of Russian oil 
companies over the same period fell by $920 mln to $2.6 bln. 

According to Alexander Braverman, First Deputy Privatisation Minister, the 
government may postpone selling stakes in Tyumen Oil Company, Eastern Oil 
Company and Slavneft at least until fall 1998. 

On May 14, 1998, Russia’s President Boris Yeltsin signed a decree appointing 
Boris Nemtsov head of the board of the state representatives in Gazprom. 

In the second half of 1998, Gazprom intends to place Eurobonds worth $1 bln. 

According to Michail Khodorkovskii, the chairman of oil company UKOS, the merger 
of UKOS and Sibneft will take place by the end of 1998 and not by July 1 as was 
reported before. 

 Energy  

Russia’s President Boris Yeltsin signed a federal law regulating ownership of 
shares of Russia’s UES and other energy companies for which significant stakes 
are held in federal property. According to this law, 51% of UES shares must be 
secured in federal property and foreign ownership should be limited to 25% of 
the company’s charter capital. 

In May 1998, Sverdlovenergo plans to receive an approval from the Russian 
government to purchase three Hydro power stations that it currently rents from 
Russia’s UES. To finance the acquisition, the company will place additional 
share issue worth R500-600 million. In the next two to three months, 
Sverdlovenergo will issue GDRs on its shares. By the end of the year, the 
company plans to receive a $60-100 syndicated loan and in spring 1999 it will 
issue Eurobonds worth $100-150 mln. Sverdlovenergo intends to complete the work 
on receiving its credit rating in the next two to three months. 

Chelyabenergo received a DM300 mln loan from a German insurance company Hermes 
to construct a thermal power plant in Chelyabinsk. 

 Telecommunications  

Five bids were received in a tender held to select a company that will conduct 
valuation of a major stake in Russian telecommunications holding Svyazinvest. 
Two of the bids were submitted by foreign firms that have experience in 
securities underwriting in international financial markets. On May 12, 1998, The 
Ministry of State Property chose American Appraisal Inc. to conduct valuation of 
the stake. 

Moscow City Telephone (MGTS) expects a decrease in its 1998 profit because the 
tariffs for its local communication services are effectively frozen. With 
benefits for different categories of the population, the tariffs for local 
telephone services in Moscow are among the lowest in Russia. 

Svyazinvest has made a decision to proceed with the merger of MMT of Moscow with 
Rostelecom. 

Kazan GTS plans to place Level-1 ADRs in international financial markets in 
September 1998. 

According to an announcement by Kubanelectrosvyaz of Krasnodar region, the 
company’s Level-1 ADRs issued on common shares have been listed on Berlin and 
Frankfurt stock exchanges. Kubanelectrosvyaz also plans to have its ADRs listed 
on LSE and Luxembourg stock exchange.  

 Other Companies 

On May 12, 1998, an extraordinary shareholders meeting of KamAZ took place. The 
main issue on the agenda was changing the ownership structure of the company. 
The primary owners of the company will be Russia’s and Tatarstan’s governments 
(each will have stakes of about 25%) and some creditor banks. KamAZ will 
increase its charter capital 50-fold (through the increase the par value of 
shares from 1 to 50 “old” roubles). 

In 1998, Chelyabinsk Metallurgical Plant (Mechel) plans to decrease its exports 
by 15% and to sell more metal in the internal market. In 1997, Mechel exported 
1.3 mln tonnes of metal products. 

On May 14, 1998, Sayansk Aluminium Plant started to place its new issue of 
7,082,312 common shares with a par value of 25 new roubles. The placement that 
is done through open subscription will be completed by March 1, 1999. 

The Ministry of State Property announced an open tender to conduct valuation of 
Novosibirsk Electrode Plant. The results will be announced by May 30, 1998.  
  
	 
